5328 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Low-Complexity Parallel Min-Sum Medium-Density
Parity-Check Decoder for McEliece Cryptosystem
Jiaxuan Cai
 , Graduate Student Member, IEEE , and Xinmiao Zhang
 , Senior Member, IEEE
Abstract— The McEliece cryptosystem based on medium-
density parity-check (MDPC) codes remains a candidate in
the fourth round submission of post-quantum cryptography
standard. The low-density parity-check (LDPC) decoders used in
digital communications have been extensively studied. However,
the MDPC codes for the McEliece cryptosystem have much
higher column weight and different structure in their parity-
check matrices. As a result, simplification techniques for LDPC
decoders are not applicable to MDPC decoders. Besides, existing
MDPC decoder designs have been focusing on the simplest bit-
flipping algorithm, whose performance is inferior compared to
that of the Min-sum algorithm. This paper first optimizes the
scaled Min-sum algorithm for codes with high column weight to
improve the performance with simple scalar multiplications. The
overall decoder architecture is re-designed to take into account
the sparsity of the parity-check matrix and nontrivial min-sum
check node processing. Besides, a flexible message storage scheme
is proposed to reduce the worst-case decoding latency of the ran-
domly constructed codes utilized in the McEliece cryptosystem.
Then a 2-stage scaling scheme is developed to reduce the long
critical path caused by the high column weight and a group
size re-balancing scheme is introduced to mitigate the precision
loss caused by the 2-stage scaling in parallel decoders. For an
example MDPC decoder, the proposed optimized 2-stage scaled
Min-sum algorithm leads to orders of magnitude error-correcting
performance improvement and 16% higher clock frequency
with negligible silicon area overhead compared to unoptimized
Min-sum decoders.
Index Terms— McEliece cryptosystem, error-correcting codes,
medium-density parity-check codes, min-sum algorithm, parallel
decoder, post-quantum cryptography.
I. I NTRODUCTION
S
IGNIFICANT
progress has been made on quantum pro-
cessor development recently. To address the imminent
need for cryptography schemes resisting quantum computing
attacks, the National Institute of Standards and Technology
(NIST) called for post-quantum cryptography standardization
recently. The fourth round submission has been announced
in July 2022, and the McEliece cryptosystem utilizing quasi-
cyclic medium-density parity-check (QC-MDPC) codes [1],
Manuscript received 12 March 2023; revised 23 July 2023 and
3 September 2023; accepted 18 September 2023. Date of publication
9 October 2023; date of current version 18 December 2023. This work was
supported by the National Science Foundation under Award 2052641. This
article was recommended by Associate Editor T. Kawahara. (Corresponding
author: Jiaxuan Cai.)
The authors are with the Department of Electrical and Computer Engi-
neering, The Ohio State University, Columbus, OH 43210 USA (e-mail:
cai.1072@osu.edu; zhang.8952@osu.edu).
Color versions of one or more figures in this article are available at
https://doi.org/10.1109/TCSI.2023.3319358.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCSI.2023.3319358
[2] remains one of the candidates. Although low-density
parity-check (LDPC) codes for error correction in digital
communication and storage systems have been well-studied,
their parity-check matrices consist of an array of many
smaller zero and cyclic permutation matrices (CPMs), have
low column weight, and are carefully designed to avoid short
cycles [3]. On the other hand, the parity-check matrices of
the MDPC codes considered for post-quantum cryptography
standard have a single row of 2, 3, or 4 randomly-constructed
very large circulant matrices of much higher column weight.
Due to the high column weight and irregularity, the decod-
ing algorithms extended from those of LDPC codes need
to be re-optimized and decoder architectures need to be
re-designed.
MDPC codes can be decoded by various algorithms. The
bit-flipping (BF) algorithm and its variations are the simplest
and have been considered in previous literature. The bits can
be flipped according to different strategies [4]. MDPC decod-
ing algorithms with a very small number of decoding iterations
have been developed for BIKE [5], which is another candidate
of post-quantum cryptography. However, these algorithms
have inferior performance compared to those in [4] when more
decoding iterations are allowed. The error-correction bounds
and error floors for BF algorithms were studied in [6] and [7].
In BF MDPC decoder implementations, the majority of the
complexity is contributed by the memories. To reduce the sizes
of the memories, the decoder can store only the first column
of each circulant in the QC-MDPC parity check matrix. Then
cyclical shifting is carried out to derive the other columns. The
decoder in [8] considers FPGA implementations. 32 bits in a
column are processed in each clock cycle and the cyclically
shifted column is stored back to BRAMs using an optimized
method. To reduce the decoding latency, the syndromes are
updated after every bit flipping instead of once only at the
end of each decoding iteration in [9]. Whether to flip a bit
is usually decided according to the syndrome weight, whose
computation is approximated in [10] to reduce the hardware
complexity. Even though the parity check matrices of MDPC
codes have higher density than those of LDPC codes, they
are still very sparse. The sparsity is further exploited in [11]
to reduce the decoding latency and silicon area. Besides, the
columns are processed in an out-of-order manner to reduce
memory writes.
MDPC decoding algorithms with better error-correcting
capabilities not only lower the probability of decryption failure
but also help to thwart various attacks, such as the reaction
1549-8328 © 2023 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See https://www.ieee.org/publications/rights/index.html for more information.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

CAI AND ZHANG: LOW-COMPLEXITY PARALLEL MIN-SUM MDPC DECODER 5329
attack [12], [13], that try to recover the secret parity-check
matrix by utilizing decoding failures. The Min-sum decoding
algorithms [14] have excellent tradeoff on performance and
complexity and can achieve substantial coding gain over BF
algorithms. The scaled version of the Min-sum algorithm
multiplies the sum of the check-to-variable (c2v) messages
by a scalar before it is added to the decoder input probability
message in the variable node processing step of the decoding.
A properly selected scalar leads to further coding gain. The
scaled Min-sum algorithm has been well-studied for the LDPC
codes used in communication and storage systems. However,
it needs to be re-investigated and the decoder needs to be
re-designed for the MDPC codes due to the much higher col-
umn weight. Besides, the check and variable node processing
steps in the Min-sum algorithm have much higher complexity
compared to their counterparts in BF decoders. As a result,
previous methodologies for parallel BF decoding no longer
leads to efficient design.
For the first time, this paper investigates the Min-sum
decoding algorithm and decoder design for the MDPC codes
used in the McEliece cryptosystem. The contributions of this
paper include the following: i) The scaled Min-sum decoding
algorithm is optimized to improve the error-correcting perfor-
mance of MDPC codes with low-complexity scalar multipliers;
ii) An efficient parallel decoder architecture is developed for
the Min-sum algorithm for randomly constructed MDPC codes
taking into account both the non-trivial check node processing
and the irregular sparse parity-check matrix. To shorten the
decoding latency, a flexible message storage scheme is also
developed and the decoder can choose from one of the two
storage schemes on the fly for a given MDPC code; iii) The
high column weight of MDPC codes leads to long critical
path in the c2v message accumulation of the variable node
processing step. To reduce the critical path, this paper proposes
to divide the c2v messages into groups and carry out message
scaling in two stages. A systematic procedure is also developed
to decide the group size and other parameters of the scaling
for a given critical path goal; iv) For parallel decoders, the
2-stage scaling leads to error-correcting performance degrada-
tion due to finite precision. A group size re-balancing scheme
implemented by simple logic is proposed to evenly distribute
the c2v messages into groups to mitigate the precision loss and
bridge the decoding performance gap. For an example decoder
of MDPC codes with 80-bit security, the proposed optimized
2-stage scaled Min-sum algorithm leads to orders of mag-
nitude error-correcting performance improvement and 16%
higher clock frequency with negligible silicon area overhead
compared to unoptimized Min-sum decoders.
This paper is organized as follows. Section II introduces
the McEliece cryptosystem and baseline Min-sum decoding
algorithm. Section III proposes optimized scaled Min-sum
algorithm for MDPC decoding. The parallel Min-sum MDPC
decoder architecture with flexible message storage scheme is
presented in Section IV. The 2-stage scaling for critical path
reduction and the group size re-balancing scheme are detailed
in Section V and VI, respectively. Section VII presents hard-
ware complexity comparisons. Discussions and conclusions
follow in Section VIII and IX, respectively.
TABLE I
QC-MDPC C ODE PARAMETERS CONSIDERED IN
MCELIECE CRYPTOSYSTEM [2]
Fig. 1. A toy H matrix and its Tanner graph.
II. M CELIECE CRYPTOSYSTEM AND MIN-SUM DECODING
An MDPC code is a linear block code that can be defined
by a parity-check matrix H. A vector x is a codeword iff
xHT = 0. For the McEliece cryptosystem based on MDPC
codes, n0 r-bit vectors, each of which has Hamming weight
w, are randomly generated and are used as the private key.
They define the first columns of n0 circulant matrices Hi
(0 ≤ i < n0) and the parity-check matrix of the MDPC
code is H = [H 0|H1| · · · |Hn0−1]. If Hn0−1 is not invertible,
the corresponding vector needs to be regenerated randomly.
The parity check matrix, H, and the generator matrix, G, of a
linear block code satisfy GHT = 0. Hence, G can be derived
as [I|BT ], where B = [H −1
n0−1H0|H−1
n0−1H1| · · · |H−1
n0−1Hn0−2].
Each H−1
n0−1Hi (0 ≤ i < n0 − 1) is also circulant, and the first
columns of these matrices form the public key of the McEliece
cryptosystem.
The encryption mainly consists of an MDPC encoding
process. The plaintext vector of (n0−1)r bits is multiplied with
G to calculate a n = n0r-bit codeword c. Then a randomly
generated n-bit vector with at most t nonzero bits is added
to c to derive the ciphertext x. Hence, the ciphertext is an
MDPC codeword corrupted by a random vector oft errors. The
decryption is to carry out MDPC decoding on x to recover the
correct codeword c. Since G is systematic, the first (n0 − 1)r
bits of c equals the plaintext. Table I lists the parameters of
the MDPC codes adopted in the McEliece cryptosystem for
the standard.
The H matrix of an MDPC code can be represented by a
bipartite graph, also called the Tanner graph. This graph has
two types of nodes: variable nodes and check nodes. Fig. 1
shows a toy H matrix and the corresponding Tanner graph.
Each variable node represents a column of H and each check
node corresponds to a row. If an entry in H is nonzero, the
corresponding variable and check nodes are connected by an
edge in the Tanner graph.
MDPC codes can be decoded by extending the algorithms
for LDPC decoding. There are a spectrum of LDPC decoding
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5330 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 2. FERs of Min-sum and BF decoding with Imax = 30 for an MDPC
code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45).
algorithms, ranging from BF, Min-sum, to belief propaga-
tion. Compared to the simple BF algorithms, the Min-sum
algorithm [14] achieves significant coding gain. Besides, they
have much better performance-complexity tradeoff than the
complicated belief propagation.
Most previous MDPC decoder designs for the McEliece
cryptosystem use the simple BF algorithms. The popular Gal-
lager’ BF algorithm flips a bit when its number of participating
unsatisfied parity checks (PUPCs) exceeds a threshold [15].
Other variations on BF algorithms have been proposed in the
literature to improve the correction performance for MDPC
codes. In particular, the REMP-2 algorithm [4], which uti-
lizes extrinsic messages and introduces random erasures with
certain probability to the variable-to-check (v2c) messages,
are among the BF algorithms with the best performance.
Fig. 2 shows simulation results of Gallager’s and REMP-2
BF algorithms for a randomly generated MDPC code with
(n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45). The maximum number of decoding
iterations is set to Imax = 30. For the Gallager’s algorithm,
th = 29 is used as the threshold for bit flipping because it
leads to the lowest decoding frame error rate (FER) from
simulations. For the REMP-2 algorithm, ω = 13 is the weight
multiplied to the channel bit and p∗ = 0.1 is the probability
of inserting erasures in the v2c message computation. These
are optimized parameters found in [4]. Simulation results for
Min-sum algorithms with optimized scalars, which will be
detailed in the following sections, are also included in Fig. 2.
They can achieve orders of magnitude improvement on the
decoding FER compared to BF algorithms.
The Min-sum algorithm iteratively passes multi-bit reliabil-
ity information between connected check and variable nodes to
update the decisions on the input bits as listed in Algorithm 1.
For hard-decision input vector x = [ x0, x1, · · · , xn−1], the
initial probability information of xi, denoted by γi, is set
to +C or −C when xi is ‘0’ or ‘1’, respectively. Here
C is a constant that can be decided from simulations. Its
optimal value depends on the number of bits used to represent
the reliability messages and the column weight of the code.
In Algorithm 1, ui, j denotes the reliability message from
variable node j to check node i, and vi, j is the message from
Fig. 3. Example parity check matrices of (a) an MDPC code used in the
McEliece cryptosystem; (b) an LDPC code used for error correction in digital
communication and storage systems.
check node i to variable node j. Sc( j) (Sv(i)) represents the
set of check (variable) nodes that are connected to variable
(check) node j (i). The sign bit of a message is ‘0’ and ‘1’
when it is positive and negative, respectively. In Algorithm 1,
⊕ denotes the XOR operation. If no codeword is found at the
end of iteration Imax, decoding failure is declared. To improve
the error-correcting capability, a scalar, α, is multiplied to the
sum of the c2v messages in the variable node processing and
a posteriori information calculation [14]. It is typically set to
0.5 or 0.25 for LDPC codes with column weight 4 in order to
reduce the hardware complexity [16].
Algorithm 1 Scaled Min-Sum Decoding Algorithm
1: Input: x = [x0, x1, · · · , xn−1]
2: Initialization: ui, j = γ j
3: for iter = 1 to Imax do
4: Stop if xHT = 0
5: Check node processing:
6: min 1i = min j∈Sv(i) |ui, j |
7: idx i = arg minj∈Sv(i) |ui, j |
8: min 2i = min j∈Sv(i), j̸=idx i |ui, j |
9: si = ⊕ j∈Sv(i)sign(ui, j )
10: for each j ∈ Sv(i)
11: |vi, j | =
{
min 1i if j ̸= idx i
min 2i if j = idx i
12: sign (vi, j ) = si ⊕ sign (ui, j )
13: Variable node processing:
14: ui, j = γ j + α ∑
i ′∈Sc( j),i ′̸=i vi ′, j
15: A posteriori info. comp. & tentative decision:
16: ˜γ j = γ j + α ∑
i∈Sc( j) vi, j
17: x j = sign( ˜γ j )
18: end for
Many hardware implementation architectures have been
developed for the Min-sum decoders of LDPC codes [17],
[18], [19], [20]. However, the LDPC codes used for error
correction in communication and digital storage systems have
fundamentally different structure in their parity check matrices
compared to the MDPC codes in the McEliece cryptosystem
as shown in Fig. 3. The diagonal lines in this figure denote
the nonzero entries. A QC-LDPC parity check matrix consists
of a large number of smaller CPMs. Hence, efficient parallel
decoders can be realized by processing blocks of CPMs
simultaneously in each clock cycle. However, such parallel
processing is not applicable to MDPC decoders due to the
irregular locations of the nonzero entries in the randomly
generated H matrix. The check node processing in the BF
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

CAI AND ZHANG: LOW-COMPLEXITY PARALLEL MIN-SUM MDPC DECODER 5331
decoding algorithms are simple XOR operations. Hence, pre-
vious MDPC decoders [8], [9], [10], [11] process a segment
of L consecutive bits in a column of H each time by using L
check node units (CNUs) even though many of them are idling
for those ‘0’ entries in each clock cycle. On the other hand, the
Min-sum check node processing has much higher complexity
as shown in Algorithm 1. Extending the parallel processing
scheme of BF decoders to Min-sum decoders would lead to
large silicon area and low hardware efficiency. As a result,
the parallel processing scheme needs to be re-designed for
Min-sum MDPC decoding.
The MDPC codes listed in Table I have column weight
45 or higher instead of 3 or 4 as in the LDPC codes for
communications and digital storage. The much higher column
weight necessitates the re-optimization of the scaling in the
Min-sum algorithm. Besides, the accumulation of a large
number of c2v messages in the variable node processing and a
posteriori information calculation of Algorithm 1 lead to long
data paths in feedback loops and limit the achievable clock
frequency of the decoder. As a result, the scaling scheme also
needs to be reformulated for critical path reduction.
In the following sections, the scaled Min-sum algorithm is
first optimized for MDPC codes. Then an efficient parallel
decoder architecture is developed. Besides, 2-stage scaling
and group size re-balancing schemes are proposed to reduce
the critical path with negligible performance degradation and
silicon area overhead.
III. S CALED MIN-SUM DECODING ALGORITHM FOR
MDPC C ODES
In the Min-sum MDPC decoding for the McEliece cryp-
tosystem, the initial probability information γ j is set to either
+C or −C when the i-th bit at the decoder input is ‘0’ or
‘1’, respectively. The value of C leading to the best decoding
performance can be decided from simulations. In the variable
node processing and a posteriori information calculation steps
of Algorithm 1, the sum of the c2v messages are scaled by α
before it is added to γ j. If the magnitudes of the scaled sums
are too big, then the initial probabilities and hence the bits at
the decoder input do not have much effect on the decoding
after the first iteration. On the other hand, if the initial
probabilities have much larger magnitudes than the scaled
sums, they will prevent erroneous bits from being corrected.
Hence, the choice of the scalar α affects the decoding FER
significantly. For LDPC codes with column weight 3 or 4,
which are typically used in digital communication and storage
systems, setting α to 0.5 or 0.25 leads to good error-correcting
performance without actually requiring any multiplier in hard-
ware implementation. However, when the column weight is
much higher, as in the MDPC codes for the McEliece cryp-
tosystem, these scalar values lead to substantial performance
degradation. Fig. 2 shows simulation results for a randomly
generated MDPC code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45) and
Imax = 30. In our simulations, each v2c and c2v message is
represented by 4-bit integer magnitude and 1-bit sign. In this
case, setting C to 9 leads to good performance. Using more bits
to represent the messages would lead to lower FER at the cost
of higher implementation complexity. From Fig. 2, it can be
Fig. 4. Hardware implementation architecture for rounding.
observed that, the Min-sum decoding with α = 0.25 does not
achieve better performance than the BF algorithms. A much
smaller α is needed to prevent the sums of c2v messages from
overly dominating the decoding process.
The scalar that leads to the lowest FER can be found from
simulations. To simplify the scalar multipliers, the scalars
considered in our design can be represented by at most
two nonzero digits, each of which is either +1 or −1.
In this case, the scalar multiplication requires at most a single
adder/subtractor to implement. The less significant bits of the
scalar do not affect the decoding FER much. To reduce the
search space, the scalar is limited to 6 digits in the fractional
part. From simulations, among the scalars satisfying these
conditions, α = 0.09375 leads to the lowest FER when full
precision is kept on the multiplication results. It is more
than three orders of magnitude lower compared to using
α = 0.25 when there are 101 errors in the decoder input as
shown in Fig. 2. When the input has 84 errors as the target
correction capability listed in Table I, the gain would be even
more significant.
To reduce the hardware complexity of Min-sum decoders,
the a posteriori information of variable node j is shared to
compute each v2c message from variable node j for the next
decoding iteration as
ui, j = (γ j + α
∑
i ′∈Sc( j)
vi ′, j ) − αvi ′ j . (1)
When |vi, j | is represented as a 4-bit integer, ⌈log2(w(24 −1))⌉
bits are needed to represent the magnitude of the sum of w
c2v messages. If |ui, j | is larger than 24−1 = 15, it is saturated
to 15.
Scalar multiplication results have fractional parts. Trun-
cation or rounding can be applied to bring them back to
integer format. Assume that the scalar multiplication result
is a = · · · a2a1a0.a−1a−2 · · ·. Truncation is just to discard
the fractional bits. Rounding can be implemented by the
architecture shown in Fig. 4. To shorten the data path, ‘1’
is pre-added to the integer part of a. Then the result of this
addition or the integer part itself is selected to be the rounding
result when a−1 is ‘1’ or ‘0’, respectively. As the bits ofa are
generated from the scalar multiplication, they are added with
‘1’. Hence, such rounding does not add much to the data path
of scalar multiplication.
In (1), different combinations of truncation and rounding
can be applied to the two scalar multiplications. Simulations
have been re-run to find the optimal scalar for each com-
bination and the results are shown in Fig. 2. Carrying out
rounding on both scalar multiplication results leads to the best
performance. On the other hand, truncating αvi, j substantially
degrades the error-correcting performance. This is because that
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5332 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 5. Top-level architecture of the proposed Min-sum MDPC decoder for
the case of 2-parallel processing.
the optimal α for MDPC codes with high column weight is
very small and hence α multiplied to a single c2v message vi, j
is also small. As a result, discarding the fractional bits will
lead to more substantial precision loss. As shown in Fig. 4,
although rounding needs an extra multiplexer and an adder,
these units have small area overhead and do not add much
to the data path of the multiplier. Hence, rounding is applied
after both scalar multiplications in (1) in our design.
IV. E FFICIENT AND LOW-LATENCY PARALLEL MIN-SUM
MDPC D ECODER ARCHITECTURE
In this section, an efficient parallel Min-sum decoder archi-
tecture is first proposed for MDPC codes. Then a flexible
message storage scheme is developed to reduce the decoding
latency for randomly constructed MDPC codes.
A. Efficient Parallel Min-Sum MDPC Decoder Architecture
For MDPC codes, a column in a submatrix of H is a cyclical
shift of the previous column and the locations of the ‘1’s
in each column are random. Due to these reasons, MDPC
decoders can be implemented more efficiently by processing
the H matrix column by column. Previous implementations
of MDPC decoders consider BF algorithms [8], [9], [10],
[11], which are much simpler than the Min-sum algorithm
listed in Algorithm 1. For BF algorithms, the v2c messages
are single bits. The check node processing consists of XOR
operations, and the variable node processing counts the total
number of PUPCs, which is utilized to decide whether to flip
a bit. For parallel processing, L CNUs can be allocated to
process a segment of L consecutive bits of a column of H
in each clock cycle. Even though many of the CNUs are
idling since most of the entries of H are still ‘0’ for MDPC
codes, having many copies of them does not bring much
area overhead to the overall decoder due to their very simple
architecture. However, such a parallel processing scheme can
not be extended to Min-sum decoders, which have much more
complicated CNUs.
In our proposed Min-sum MDPC decoder, only the nonzero
entries of H are processed in order to reduce the area and
increase the hardware utilization efficiency. To reduce the
memory requirement, the columns are processed one after
another, and the nonzero entry indices for the next column
Fig. 6. (a) Architecture of CNU A; (b) architecture of CNU B.
are derived through adding those for the current column by
one mod r. The block diagram of the proposed decoder for
an example case of L = 2-parallel processing is shown in
Fig. 5. In the beginning, the indices of the nonzero entries in
the first column of each submatrix of H are split and stored
into L = 2 blocks of RAM I. During the decoding process,
as an index is read out, it is added by one mod r to derive
the index of the shifted entry in the next column of H in
the “H matrix shifting” block and the result is written back to
RAM I. The decoder input bits are written into a pair of RAM
C in the beginning. RAM C0 holds the input bits. Depending
on whether a bit is ‘0’ or ‘1’, the corresponding probability
information is set to +C or −C, respectively, through a
multiplexer. RAM C1 records the updated bit from Line 17 of
Algorithm 1. When the decoding stops. The decoding result
is available in RAM C1.
There are two pairs of RAM M. In the first decoding
iteration, each row of the RAM M0 and M1 pair stores the
temporary min 1, min 2, idx and s values corresponding to a
row of H. The indices stored in RAM I0 and I1 are used as
the addresses to access RAM M0 and M1, and L = 2 CNUs
are utilized to process the entries read out. A CNU consists
of two parts and its architecture is shown in Fig. 6 [16].
Part A updates the temporary min 1, min 2, idx , and s values
according to Lines 6-9 of Algorithm 1, and the updated results
are stored back to RAM M0 and M1. After all the columns of
H are processed, the final min 1, min 2, idx , and s for every
row of H are available in RAM M0 and M1. They can be
considered as compressed c2v messages. From these values,
part B of the CNU derives the c2v messages according to Lines
11-12 of Algorithm 1. The signs of ui, j that are processed by
the same CNU A are stored into consecutive addresses of a
RAM S block. Each CNU A processes one ui, j in each clock
cycle. However, storing the signs of ui, j into memories of
1-bit wide leads to very deep memories considering the large
column weight of the code and long codeword length. Instead,
our design uses a shift register to collect a number of sign bits,
such as 2 e (e ∈ Z +), and writes them into memories that are
2e-bit wide. The depth of the memories is reduced accordingly.
e can be adjusted to trade off memory width and depth. When
the sign bits are needed for Line 12 of Algorithm 1 in CNU B,
2e of them are read out from a line of RAM S each time and
loaded into a shift register, which shifts out individual sign
bits.
A 2-parallel variable node unit (VNU) can be implemented
by the architecture in Fig. 7. The c2v and v2c message
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

CAI AND ZHANG: LOW-COMPLEXITY PARALLEL MIN-SUM MDPC DECODER 5333
Fig. 7. Architecture of the 2-parallel VNU.
Fig. 8. Scheduling of variable and check node processing in the proposed
decoder.
magnitudes are represented by d bits. The c2v messages are
first converted from sign-magnitude format to 2’s complement
representation. Then up to L = 2 c2v messages are accumu-
lated in each clock cycle. Since it takes multiple clock cycles
to calculate the a posteriori message, the c2v messages are
also stored into RAM T before they are subtracted to derive
the v2c messages for the next iteration. The v2c messages are
converted back to sign-magnitude representation, and those
magnitudes larger than 2d −1 are saturated to this value before
they are sent to the CNUs. While the c2v messages from
decoding iteration k are being generated, the newly computed
v2c messages are sent to the CNUs to carry out decoding
iteration k + 1. Therefore, the RAM M2, M3 pair and RAM
M0, M1 pair are used in a ping-pang manner to store the final
min 1, min 2, idx , and s for iteration k and those temporary
values for iteration k + 1. Different from the compressed c2v
messages stored in RAM M, a sign bit for decoding iteration k
can be overwritten by that for iteration k +1 once it is utilized
to derive the corresponding c2v message in CNU B. Hence,
the decoder only needs one set of RAM S blocks.
Fig. 8 shows the scheduling of the computations in our
proposed decoder. The c2v messages generated by CNU Bs for
column j are accumulated, scaled, and added to γ j. Then the
sum is subtracted by the scaled individual c2v messages stored
in RAM T to compute the v2c messages for column j, which
are sent to CNU A to carry out the check node processing
for the next iteration. Meanwhile, CNU B generates the c2v
messages for column j + 1. Although the nonzero indices for
two columns of H are needed at the same time, the indices of
column j +1 can be derived from those of column j by adding
one mod r on the fly. Hence, only the nonzero indices of one
column of each sub-matrix of H are stored in RAM I at any
time. From Table I, n0 > 1 for the MDPC codes considered for
the standard. Hence, each RAM I block consists of n0 banks.
The sizes of the RAM blocks utilized in an L-parallel
decoder for MDPC codes with code parameters (n0, r, w)
and d-bit c2v and v2c message magnitude are summarized in
Table II. If the decoder needs to be reconfigurable to support
codes with different parameters, each RAM should be set
TABLE II
SIZES OF THE RAM B LOCKS UTILIZED IN THE PROPOSED
L-PARALLEL DECODER FOR (n0, r, w) MDPC C ODES
WITH d-BIT C 2V AND V 2C MESSAGE MAGNITUDE
to the largest possible size. Taking into account the random
construction of H, the numbers of nonzero entries in each
segment of a column of H are uneven. Hence, ⌈w/L⌉ + δ
rows are allocated to each of the RAM I and T blocks. The
value of δ can be derived from simulations over a large number
of random codes. The entries in each memory, except RAM
M blocks, are accessed consecutively one after another. The
addresses for accessing RAM M blocks are read from RAM
I blocks.
B. Flexible Message Storage Scheme for Decoding Latency
Reduction
To achieve L-parallel processing, the indices of the nonzero
entries in each column of the H matrix need to be split
and stored into L blocks of RAM I. The number of clock
cycles needed to process a column of H is the maximum
of the number of entries stored in the L memory blocks.
The H matrix for the McEliece cryptosystem is generated
randomly. In many cases, the nonzero entries are unevenly
distributed. As a result, a larger number of clock cycles are
needed for each decoding iteration. To address this issue, our
proposed decoder allows two different nonzero entry splitting
and message storage schemes. For a given randomly generated
H matrix, the scheme leading to shorter decoding latency is
chosen. Both of the schemes are implemented with negligible
hardware overhead.
Our first scheme divides the rows of H into L segments,
where segment l ( 0 ≤ l < L) consists of ⌈r/L⌉ consecutive
rows starting from row ⌈r/L⌉l and the last segment has the
rest rows. The indices of the nonzero entries in segment l
of a column are stored in block l of RAM I, and the ⌈r/L⌉
compressed c2v messages of this segment are stored in one
RAM M block. The indices are added by one mod r to
generate the indices for the next column of H. If the modular
sum falls into the range of the next segment, it is stored in the
next block of RAM I. Our second scheme puts row i satisfying
i mod L = l in segment l. The nonzero entry indices of H
in the same segment are stored in the same RAM I block.
The compressed c2v messages corresponding to a segment
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5334 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 9. Modifications to support flexible message storage scheme in a
2-parallel decoder.
are recorded in a block of RAM M. Different from the first
scheme, an index added by one mod r always belongs to the
next segment and is written to the next block of RAM I in the
derivation of the next column of H.
For a given randomly generated H matrix, the number
of clock cycles needed to process a column equals to the
maximum of the number of nonzero entries in the corre-
sponding L segments of bits. These numbers for each of the
columns can be derived from simulations and are added up to
estimate the latency of each decoding iteration. The storage
scheme leading to the shorter latency is chosen. To support
the proposed scheme, the 2-parallel decoder architecture in
Fig. 5 is modified as shown in Fig. 9 to be able to select
one of the two storage schemes on the fly. For the purpose
of conciseness, only the modified parts are shown in this
figure. The select signal sel equals ‘1’ and ‘0’ when the
first and second storage scheme, respectively, are chosen. The
index of each nonzero entry originally has q = ⌈log 2 r ⌉ bits.
For the first scheme, if the index is lower than ⌈r/2⌉, it is
stored into RAM I0. Otherwise, it is subtracted by ⌈r/2⌉
and the difference is stored into RAM I1. This subtraction
is necessary since the indices stored in RAM I are used as
the addresses to access RAM M and the addresses of each
RAM M start from zero. For the second scheme, whether the
index is even or odd can be told from the least significant
bit (LSB). The LSB is eliminated and the higher q − 1 bits
are stored into RAM I0 and I1 also because the addresses
for accessing each RAM M block start from zero. Compared
to the decoder architecture in Fig. 5, the extra units needed
to support the flexible message storage scheme include the
subtractor, comparator, and multiplexers shown in gray color
in Fig. 9. Besides, the logic in the “H matrix shifting” block of
Fig. 5 needs to be modified accordingly. These modifications
bring negligible overheads to the overall decoder and can be
easily extended to decoders with higher parallelism.
To find the decoding latency reduction that can be achieved
by the proposed scheme, simulations have been carried out
on 1000 randomly generated MDPC codes with (n0, r, w) =
(2, 4081, 45). The shorter decoding latency of the two message
storage schemes is compared to that of the first scheme and
the results are shown in Fig. 10. Among the 1000 codes, for
Fig. 10. Decoding latency reduction achieved by the proposed flexible
message storage scheme over 1000 randomly generated MDPC codes with
(n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45) for (a) 2-parallel decoder; (b) 4-parallel decoder.
Fig. 11. Architecture implementing 2-stage scaling for 2-parallel decoders.
4-parallel design, the codes with top 5% decoding latency
reduction have their latency reduced by an average of 15.6%
using the proposed scheme. The latency reductions range
between 13.1% and 20.9% and the top and bottom edges of the
rectangle in Fig. 10 represent the bottom and top quadruples,
respectively, of the latency reduction. For the next 5% of the
codes with the greatest latency reduction, which is labeled as
‘5-10%’ in the figure, the average latency reduction achieved
by the second scheme on average is 11.2%. The achievable
saving increases with the parallelism since dividing the rows of
H into more segments leads to larger variation on the number
of nonzero entries in each segment.
V. T WO-STAGE SCALING FOR CRITICAL PATH REDUCTION
In the VNU architecture shown in Fig. 7, even though the
c2v messages are accumulated in L streams, a large number
of c2v messages are accumulated in each feedback loop due to
the high column weight of the MDPC codes. Hence, the adders
in the feedback loops are wide. For example, for the MDPC
code with w = 45, the δ in Table II for 2-parallel processing
is 10 from simulations. Hence ⌈w/L⌉ + δ = 33 c2v messages
may be accumulated in a feedback loop. If each c2v message is
represented by 1-bit sign and d = 4-bit magnitude, the result
needs ⌈log2 33⌉ + 5 = 11 bits to represent. Since each full
adder has 2 levels of logic in the data path, the accumulator
has 22 levels of logic in the data path. Comparatively, the
4-bit comparator and 3-input multiplexer in the feedback loop
of a CNU shown in Fig. 6(a) can be implemented by 8 levels
of 2-input logic. Therefore, the feedback loops in the VNUs
have much longer data path than those in the CNUs and they
limit the achievable clock frequency of the overall decoder.
To shorten the critical path, a 2-stage scaling scheme is
proposed in this section. Additionally, a systematic procedure
is developed to decide the parameters of the 2-stage scaling
for achieving a given critical path goal.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

CAI AND ZHANG: LOW-COMPLEXITY PARALLEL MIN-SUM MDPC DECODER 5335
In our 2-stage scaling scheme, the scalar α is decomposed
into α1 and α2. The stream of c2v messages output from
a CNU is divided into groups of g messages. In the case
that the number of messages is not a multiple of g, the last
group has a smaller number of messages. The messages in
each group are accumulated and the result is multiplied by
α1. The product is rounded to eliminate the fractional bits.
Then the rounded product for each group is accumulated in
the second feedback loop. The final accumulated result is
scaled by α2 followed by rounding. For 2-parallel decoding,
the architecture implementing this 2-stage scaling is shown
in Fig. 11. This architecture replaces the units circled by the
dashed block in the VNU architecture in Fig. 7.
Since the sum of each group is scaled down and rounded
before it is further accumulated, the widths of the adders in
the feedback loops and accordingly the critical path is reduced.
Through tuning the group size g, α1, and α2, the data paths
in the feedback loops can be controlled to achieve a given
critical path goal. On the other hand, the rounding after the
α1 multiplication causes additional precision loss and hence
performance degradation compared to using a 1-stage scaling
with α = α1α2. To reduce the hardware implementation
complexity, every involved scalar should be represented by
using no more than 2 nonzero digits. All these issues are
jointly considered to develop the following steps for deciding
g, α1, and α2, given that the critical path does not exceed p
full adders.
Step 1: Group Size Decision
The group size, g, in the 2-stage scaling should be as large
as possible since adding more c2v messages up before scaling
and rounding reduces precision loss and improves the error-
correcting performance. To make the width of the adders in
the first-stage feedback loops of Fig. 11 at most p-bit, the
group size can be chosen as g = ⌊(2 p−1 − 1)/(24 − 1)⌋ when
each c2v message uses 4 bits to represent the magnitude. For
example, if the critical path goal is p = 9 full adders, the
group size is set to g = ⌊(28 − 1)/(24 − 1)⌋ = 17.
Step 2: Range of α1 Determination
The number of bits needed to represent the data in the
second-stage feedback loops in Fig. 11 should not exceed p
either to achieve a critical path of p full adders. The maximum
number of c2v messages sent to a first-stage feedback loop in
Fig. 11 is ⌈w/L⌉ + δ. Then the maximum magnitude at the
output of a second-stage feedback loop is α1(24 −1)(⌈w/L⌉+
δ). Therefore, from α1(24 − 1)(⌈w/L⌉ + δ) ≤ 2p−1 − 1, the
range of α1 can be determined. For example, in 2-parallel
decoding, from the simulation over 1000 randomly generated
MDPC codes with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4081, 45), it was found
that δ = 10. To achieve a critical path of p = 9 full adders,
α1 ≤ (29−1 − 1)/((24 − 1)(⌈45/2⌉ + 10)) = 0.515 in the
2-parallel decoder.
Step 3: α1, α2, and α Selection
To reduce the hardware implementation complexity, our
design allows each scalar, including α1, α2, and α = α1α2,
to have 6 digits in the fractional part and at most two digits
are nonzero. In this case, the corresponding multiplication
TABLE III
COMBINATIONS OF α1 ≤ 0.515, α2 < 1 AND α = α1α2, E ACH OF WHICH
HAS UP TO 2 N ONZERO DIGITS IN 6-D IGIT REPRESENTATION
Fig. 12. FERs of two-stage scaling Min-sum decoders achieving 9-full-adder
critical path for a random MDPC code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45) and
Imax = 30.
takes at most one addition/subtraction. Once the range of
α1 is determined from Step 2, all possible values of α1, α2,
and α satisfying these conditions can be found. For α1 ≤
0.515 considered in the previous example, Table III shows
all possible combinations of α1, α2 and α satisfying the
constraints. Simulations are then carried out to determine the
combination of scalars leading to the lowest FER.
Following the above procedure, the scalars leading to the
lowest FER for the 2-parallel decoder consisting of 9 full
adders in the critical path are α1 = α2 = 0.375, and
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5336 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
Fig. 13. Flow chart for group size re-balancing when g = 16 and the number
of c2v messages in a stream to accumulate is at most 3 g.
α = 0.140625. This 2-stage scaling reduces the critical
path and increases the achievable clock frequency by (1/9 −
1/11)/(1/11) = 22% compared to the original 1-stage scaling
that has 11 full adders in the critical path. For a 4-parallel
decoder with the same critical path, the best scalars found from
simulations are α1 = 0.5625, α2 = 0.25, and α = 0.140625.
The FERs of these two settings are shown in Fig. 12 for a
randomly generated MDPC code. The performance degrada-
tion of the decoding with 2-stage scaling compared to 1-stage
scaling is mainly caused by the precision loss resulted from
the α1 multiplication and rounding. In particular, if the last
group of c2v messages has less than g entries, the scaling and
rounding on their sum cause more precision loss. This analysis
is further verified from the fact that the 4-parallel decoder has
higher FER than the 2-parallel decoder as shown in Fig. 12,
although both of the settings use the best possible scalars.
In the 4-parallel design, since the c2v messages associated
with a column of H are divided into 4 instead of 2 streams,
the last group of each stream more likely has a smaller number
of entries. Besides, there are 4 such groups that go through
scaling and rounding. As a result, more precision is lost.
VI. G ROUP SIZE RE-BALANCING
To mitigate the performance loss brought by scaling and
rounding the sum of a small number of c2v messages in the
2-stage scaling, a group size re-balancing scheme is proposed
in this section. This technique aims to evenly distribute the
number of c2v messages to be accumulated in each group as
much as possible, thereby reducing the amount of precision
loss and narrowing the gap in the decoding performance.
To simplify the group size re-balancing, g is adjusted to the
next lower integer that is in the format of a power of 2. For
the example MDPC code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45) with
2-parallel decoding and 9 full adders in the critical path, g is
adjusted from 17 to 16. For an example case that the number
of c2v messages to accumulate in a stream does not exceed
3g = 48, the group sizes can be re-balanced according to
the chart in Fig. 13. A similar procedure can be developed to
re-balance the group sizes for other values of g and/or when
the number of c2v messages to accumulate in a stream is more
than 3g.
In the case that the number of c2v messages in a stream
does not exceed 48, it can be represented by a 6-bit integer as
a5a4a3a2a1a0. Originally, for g = 16, h = a5a4 is the number
of groups with g = 16 entries and y = a3a2a1a0 is the size
of the last group if y ̸= 0. When y = 0, the stream length is
a multiple of 16 and every group has 16 entries. Group size
TABLE IV
NUMBER OF ENTRIES TO MOVE FROM EACH OF THE FIRST a5a4 = 2
GROUPS TO THE LAST GROUP FOR SIZE RE-BALANCING IN THE CASE
OF g = 16
adjustment is not necessary. When h = 0, there is only one
group with less than 16 entries. Group size re-balancing is not
needed either. Since 48 = ‘110000’,a5a4 = ‘01’ or ‘10’ for
the rest cases. If y ̸= 0, our design tries to take out the same
number of entries from each of the first h groups and put them
into the last group. However, if h + y > 16, this would make
the last group have more than 16 entries even if only one entry
is moved from each of the other groups. Our design chooses
not to adjust the group size in this case.
If group size re-balancing is needed, and there are only two
groups, which happens if a5a4 = ‘01’, the stream is evenly
divided between the two groups. The size of one group is
adjusted to a4a3a2a1, and the size of the other is a4a3a2a1 +
a0. For the remaining cases, a5a4 = ‘10’. Assume that m
entries are moved from each of the first h = a5a4 groups
to the last group. Then the size of the last group becomes
m · a5a4 + a3a2a1a0, while the first h groups are reduced to
16 − m entries each. The goal of the group size re-balancing
is to distribute the c2v messages among the groups as evenly
as possible. Hence, m should be chosen to minimize the
difference between m · a5a4 + a3a2a1a0 and 16 − m. For a5a4
= ‘10’= 2, such values of m = m2m1m0 corresponding to
different a3a2a1a0 are listed in Table IV. Utilizing K-map,
simplified logic formulas can be derived for m2m1m0.
Simulation results of MDPC decoding using the proposed
group size re-balancing scheme are also included in Fig. 12.
It can be observed that the group size re-balancing effec-
tively reduces the performance gap between the decoding
with single-stage scaling and that with two-stage scaling and
parallel processing. Besides, it can be implemented by simple
logic following the chart in Fig. 13. After the accumulation
of the c2v messages of each group, the result is sent to the
α1 multiplier, while the feedback loop starts to accumulate the
c2v messages for the next group. Therefore, having groups of
adjusted sizes does not bring any latency penalty.
VII. H ARDWARE COMPLEXITY COMPARISONS
The proposed flexible message storage scheme only requires
a comparator, an adder, a few extra multiplexers, and simple
change in the control logic. It brings negligible area overhead
while achieving non-trivial latency reduction for a significant
portion of MDPC codes as shown in Fig. 10. The group size
re-balancing scheme can be also implemented by simple logic
with negligible area overhead, such as according to Fig. 13
for an example setting. It mitigates the error-correcting perfor-
mance loss brought by the 2-stage scaling without increasing
the number of clock cycles needed for the decoding.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

CAI AND ZHANG: LOW-COMPLEXITY PARALLEL MIN-SUM MDPC DECODER 5337
TABLE V
SYNTHESIS RESULTS OF THE VNU W ITH 1-S TAGE AND 2-S TAGE
SCALING USING GLOBAL FOUNDRIES 22FDX P ROCESS
TABLE VI
2-PARALLEL MIN-SUM AND BF D ECODER AREA AND LATENCY
COMPARISONS FOR AN MDPC C ODE WITH (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45)
The 2-stage scaling scheme only affects the VNUs. To fur-
ther evaluate the data path reduction achievable by this
scheme, the VNU architecture in Fig. 7 for implementing
the original 1-stage scaling and that with the units inside
the dashed block replaced by the architecture in Fig. 11 for
implementing the proposed 2-stage scaling are synthesized
using GlobalFoundries 22FDX process. The synthesis results
are listed in TableV. Each design is synthesized using different
timing constraints. For the VNU with 1-stage scaling, the area
increases substantially when the timing constraint becomes
shorter than 242 ps. On the other hand, the area of the VNU
with 2-stage scaling does not increase significantly until the
timing constraint becomes shorter than 208 ps. Hence the
2-stage scaling increases the achievable clock frequency by
(1/208-1/242)/(1/242)=16%. This percentage is less than the
(1/9-1/11)/(1/11)=22.2% estimated from the critical path in
architectural level since the setup time and propagation delay
of the registers also contribute to the achievable clock period.
The overall complexities of 2-parallel Min-sum decoders
are compared in Table VI. The logic areas listed in this table
are contributed by VNUs, CNUs, and other control logic.
Hence they are larger than those in Table V, which are for
VNUs only. It can be assumed that storing a bit in memory
takes the area of 1.5 NAND2 gates [9]. On the other hand,
the area of one NAND2 gate in the GlobalFoundries 22FDX
process is 0.2µm 2. From this assumption, the size of the
proposed Min-sum MDPC decoder in terms of equivalent
NAND2 gates is listed in Table VI. It can be seen that our
new design has negligible area overhead compared to the
design with traditional 1-stage scaling. This is because that
the memories contribute to the majority of the complexity and
they are the same in both designs. The average number of
decoding iterations is collected from simulations over 10,000
samples with t = 84 errors at decoder input, which is the
error number targeted by the standard. From the average
number of decoding iterations, number of clock cycles for
each decoding iteration, and the maximum achievable clock
frequency for each decoder listed in Table VI, it can be calcu-
lated that the proposed decoder with 2-stage scaling achieves
(0.357-0.308)/(0.357)=14% latency reduction. This is lower
than the 16% achievable clock frequency increase because that
the proposed design requires slightly more decoding iterations.
For comparison, the complexity of the REMP-2 decoder,
which is among the best-performing BF decoders for MDPC
codes [4], is also included in Table VI. It can be implemented
following similar overall architecture and scheduling scheme
as shown in Fig. 5 and Fig. 8, respectively. Since each v2c
message in the REMP-2 decoder can only have three possible
values: ‘0’, ‘+1’, and ‘−1’, the CNU is simplified to count
whether the number of ‘0’ v2c messages is 0, 1, or at least 2.
Accordingly, the size of RAM M is reduced. However, the sign
bit of every v2c message still needs to be stored in RAM S.
As it can be observed from Table II, this RAM dominates
the memory complexity due to the high column weight of
the code. As a result, the total memory size of the REMP-2
decoder is not reduced much and the overall complexity is
only 7% less compared to Min-sum decoders for the MDPC
code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45) as shown in Table VI.
Since the c2v messages in the REMP-2 BF decoder are either
‘0’, ‘+1’, or ‘−1’ instead of 5-bit as in the proposed Min-sum
decoder, their accumulation in the VNU has shorter data path.
Hence, the achievable clock frequency of the REMP-2 decoder
is higher. Although the proposed 2-stage scaled Min-sum
decoder has (0.308-0.232)/0.232=32.8% longer latency, its
decoding FER is several orders of magnitude lower compared
to the REMP-2 decoder as shown in Fig. 2.
VIII. D ISCUSSIONS
For codes with higher column weight w, the critical path
of the original scaled Min-sum decoder is even longer. The
parameters of the 2-stage scaling can be tuned to achieve
a given critical path goal. Accordingly, the proposed design
can achieve even more significant improvement on the clock
frequency.
In the proposed flexible message storage scheme, two
different schemes are implemented and the decoder can choose
to use one of them on the fly for a given MDPC code.
More storage schemes can be utilized to further reduce the
decoding latency for a larger percentage of random MDPC
codes. However, the additional improvement would be less
significant due to the random locations of the nonzero entries
in the parity-check matrix.
Due to the irregularity of the parity-check matrix, increasing
the parallelism of the proposed design would lead to less
significant increase in the decoding throughput. However, the
proposed design processes only the nonzero entries in the H
matrix. Even with low parallelism, it is more effective that
prior designs that process a large number of consecutive bits
in a column of H in each clock cycle. This is because that,
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 

5338 IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS—I: REGULAR PAPERS, VOL. 70, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2023
although the parity-check matrix of an MDPC code has higher
density than that of an LDPC code, it is still very sparse. As a
result, a segment of consecutive bits in a column of H most
likely only has one nonzero bit. For example, it was found
in [11] that, for the code with (n0, r, w) = (2, 4801, 45),
dividing a column of H into 32-bit segments will lead to
39 segments with nonzero bits. Hence, 39 clock cycles are
needed to process a column in this 32-parallel design. On the
other hand, our proposed 2-parallel design requires at most
⌈w/2⌉ + δ = 33 clock cycles to process a column of H.
IX. C ONCLUSION
For the first time, this paper investigates scaled Min-sum
decoding for MDPC codes with high-column weight used in
the McEliece cryptosystem. The scalar is optimized to improve
the error-correcting performance and a 2-stage scaling scheme
is developed to reduce the critical path in the decoder hardware
implementation. An efficient parallel Min-sum MDPC decoder
is also proposed by jointly considering the non-trivial check
node processing and the irregular but sparse parity check
matrix. A group-size re-balancing scheme is developed to mit-
igate the performance degradation caused by 2-stage scaling in
parallel decoders. Besides, a flexible message storage scheme
is proposed to reduce the decoding latency for randomly
constructed MDPC codes. Future work will address reducing
the memory requirement of the decoder and achieving efficient
design with higher parallelism.
REFERENCES
[1] D. J. Bernstein et al., (Nov. 2017). Classic McEliece: Conservative
Code-Based Cryptography. NIST. Accessed: Sep. 2022. [Online]. Avail-
able: https://classic.mceliece.org/nist.html
[2] R. Misoczki, J.-P. Tillich, N. Sendrier, and P. S. L. M. Barreto, “MDPC-
McEliece: New MEeliece variants from moderate density parity-check
codes,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Inf. Theory, Jul. 2013, pp. 2069–2073.
[3] S. Lin and D. J. Costello, Error Control Coding. London, U.K.: Pearson,
2004.
[4] H. Bartz and G. Liva, “On decoding schemes for the MDPC-McEliece
cryptosystem,” inProc. SCC 12th Int. ITG Conf. Syst., Commun. Coding,
Feb. 2019, pp. 1–6.
[5] T. B. Paiva and R. Terada, “Faster constant-time decoder for MDPC
codes and applications to BIKE KEM,” IACR Trans. Cryptograph.
Hardw. Embedded Syst., vol. 2022, pp. 110–134, Aug. 2022.
[6] P. Santini, M. Battaglioni, M. Baldi, and F. Chiaraluce, “Analysis of the
error correction capability of LDPC and MDPC codes under parallel
bit-flipping decoding and application to cryptography,” IEEE Trans.
Commun., vol. 68, no. 8, pp. 4648–4660, Aug. 2020.
[7] S. Arpin et al., “A study of error floor behavior in QC-MDPC codes,”
in Proc. Int. Conf. Post-Quantum Cryptogr., Sep. 2022, pp. 89–103.
[8] I. von Maurich and T. Güneysu, “Lightweight code-based cryptography:
QC-MDPC McEliece encryption on reconfigurable devices,” in Proc.
Design, Autom. Test Eur. Conf. Exhib. (DATE), Mar. 2014, pp. 1–6.
[9] I. V . Maurich, T. Oder, and T. Güneysu, “Implementing QC-MDPC
McEliece encryption,” ACM Trans. Embedded Comput. Syst., vol. 14,
no. 3, pp. 1–27, Apr. 2015.
[10] J. Hu and R. C. C. Cheung, “Area-time efficient computation of
niederreiter encryption on QC-MDPC codes for embedded hardware,”
IEEE Trans. Comput., vol. 66, no. 8, pp. 1313–1325, Aug. 2017.
[11] Z. Xie and X. Zhang, “Sparsity-aware medium-density parity-check
decoder for McEliece cryptosystems,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. II, Exp.
Briefs, vol. 70, no. 9, pp. 3343–3347, Sep. 2023.
[12] Q. Guo, T. Johansson, and P. Stankovski, “A key recovery attack on
MDPC with CCA security using decoding errors,” in Proc. 22nd Int.
Conf. Theory Appl. Cryptol. Inf. Secur., Hanoi, Vietnam, Dec. 2016,
pp. 789–815.
[13] P. Santini, M. Battaglioni, F. Chiaraluce, and M. Baldi, “Analysis of
reaction and timing attacks against cryptosystems based on sparse parity-
check codes,” Proc. Code-Based Cryptogr., 7th Int. Workshop, Jul. 2019,
pp. 115–136.
[14] J. Chen and M. P. C. Fossorier, “Density evolution for two improved
BP-based decoding algorithms of LDPC codes,” IEEE Commun. Lett.,
vol. 6, no. 5, pp. 208–210, May 2002.
[15] R. Gallager, Low-Density Parity-Check Codes. Cambridge, MA, USA:
MIT Press, 1963.
[16] X. Zhang, VLSI Architectures for Modern Error Correcting Codes. Boca
Raton, FL, USA: CRC Press, Jul. 2015.
[17] M. M. Mansour and N. R. Shanbhag, “A 640-Mb/s 2048-bit pro-
grammable LDPC decoder chip,” IEEE J. Solid-State Circuits, vol. 41,
no. 3, pp. 684–698, Mar. 2006.
[18] L. Liu and C.-J. Richard Shi, “Sliced message passing: High throughput
overlapped decoding of high-rate low-density parity-check codes,” IEEE
Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 55, no. 11, pp. 3697–3710,
Dec. 2008.
[19] Y .-L. Ueng, B.-J. Yang, C.-J. Yang, H.-C. Lee, and J.-D. Yang, “An effi-
cient multi-standard LDPC decoder design using hardware-friendly
shuffled decoding,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. I, Reg. Papers, vol. 60,
no. 3, pp. 743–756, Mar. 2013.
[20] X. Zhang and A. Bazarsky, “Perfect column-layered two-bit message-
passing LDPC decoder and architectures,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp.
Circuits Syst. (ISCAS), May 2018, pp. 1–5.
Jiaxuan Cai (Graduate Student Member, IEEE)
received the B.Eng. degree (Hons.) in computer
science and technology from the College of
Computer Science and the Hongshen Honors
School, Chongqing University, China, in 2022.
He is currently pursuing the Ph.D. degree with
the Department of Electrical and Computer
Engineering, The Ohio State University, Columbus,
OH, USA.
His current research interests include high-
performance very-large-scale-integration (VLSI)
architectures for information theory and its applications, specifically, the
error-correcting codes in post-quantum cryptography.
Xinmiao Zhang (Senior Member, IEEE) received
the Ph.D. degree in electrical engineering from the
University of Minnesota.
She is currently a Professor with The Ohio
State University. She was a Senior Technologist
with Western Digital/SanDisk from 2013 to 2017.
Prior to that, she was a Timothy E. and Allison L.
Schroeder Associate Professor with Case Western
Reserve University. She authored VLSI Architectures
for Modern Error-Correcting Codes (CRC Press,
2015) and co-edited Wireless Security and Cryptog-
raphy: Specifications and Implementations (CRC Press, 2007). Her research
interests include VLSI architecture design, digital storage and communi-
cations, cryptography, security, and signal processing. She served on the
technical program and organization committees for many conferences, includ-
ing ISCAS, ICC, GLOBECOM, SiPS, GlobalSIP, MWSCAS, and GLSVLSI.
She was a recipient of the NSF CAREER Award in 2009, the College of
Engineering Lumley Research Award from The Ohio State University in
2022, the Best Paper Award from the ACM Great Lakes Symposium on
VLSI 2004, and the Best Paper Award at International SanDisk Technology
Conference 2016. She was also the Chair (2021–2022) and the Vice-Chair
(2017–2020) of the Data Storage Technical Committee (DSTC) of the IEEE
Communications Society. She was elected the Vice President-Technical Activ-
ities of the IEEE Circuits and Systems Society (CASS) from 2022 to 2023
and served on the Board of Governors for CASS from 2019 to 2021. She
has been an Associate Editor of the IEEE T RANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS
AND SYSTEMS —I: R EGULAR PAPERS from 2010 to 2019 and IEEE O PEN
JOURNAL OF CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS since 2019.
Authorized licensed use limited to: Nanjing University. Downloaded on October 13,2025 at 08:43:57 UTC from IEEE Xplore.  Restrictions apply. 